---
title: "App overview"
hidden: false
---

This topic provides an overview of tasks in the Sensible web app.

Extracting from a new document
===

These steps provide a brief overview of process of extracting information from an example bank statement doc type:

Configure the app
-----

1. Click **+ New** in the left pane to create a new document type, for example, "bank statements".
2. Click the new document type in the left pane.
3. Click **Create configuration** and name it, for example, "anyco_bank".
4. Click **Reference documents** and click **Upload document** to upload a reference PDF, for example, a typical bank statement from Anyco Bank.
5. (Optional) Hover over the thumbnail of the uploaded PDF to display a link icon at the bottom of the thumbnail.
6. (Optional) Click the link icon and select a configuration to associate with the PDF, for example "anyco_bank". Now the Sensible app always displays this PDF by default when you click the config.

Write the extraction
-----

7. Click the new configuration to edit the SenseML and extract structured data from the PDF. For a tutorial, see [Getting Started](doc:quickstart).
8. (Optional) Click the **Validations** tab and write [validations](doc:validate-extractions).

View extractions
-----

9. Extract data from other bank statements using the [Sensible API](https://docs.sensible.so/reference), then check the extraction results in the app:
  - To view extractions for a document type, select the document type, then select the **Extractions** tab.
  - To view extractions for all document types, select **Recent extractions** in the left pane.

